Analog Variables
----------------

Display:
--------
Entering a number 01..12 in the "Group" field will cause the current values and
record enable status for the analog variables for that group to be displayed.
This also selects that group's analog variables for subsequent editing
operations.

The most recent (current) value of each of the analog variables for the
group selected by the "Group" field is displayed in real-time if the
"Resolution/Value" label is highlighted. 

Playback:
---------
Analog variables are always played back if their group is enabled.  The
resolution field does not effect playback, only recording.

Recording:
----------
Analog variables are recorded at the current resolution if:

	1.  The system is in "Record" status, AND
	2.  The group is enabled, AND
	3.  EITHER:
		3.a.1 The "Analog Source" label IS NOT highlighted, AND
		3.a.2 The group is in "Record" status
	   OR:
		3.b.1 The "Analog Source" label IS highlighted, AND
		3.b.2 The analog variable is in "Record" status

The variables which are being recorded will be erased at "current time" before
new values are recorded.  No "Overdub" mode exists for analog variables.
"Overdub" mode only effects the recording of notes into record enabled groups.

Recording of analog variables is independent of recording of notes for the
group.  This allows editing or recording of a specific "track" of analog
variable data, or notes.

Editing:
--------
The "Copy Section", "Merge Section", and "Delete Ev" operations respect the
group enable status and record status of the analog variables, allowing
specific variables from a group to be copied, merged, or deleted.

If the group is not in "Record" status, but the analog variables are, and
the "Analog Source" label is highlighted, the analog variables may be edited
without effecting the notes or other types of events in the section.  Note that
the group must be enabled for editing to occur, and the system must be in
"Record" status.
