TC(3WI)									UNIX 5.0						TC(3WI)

	NAME
		tiny curses - screen functions without ``optimal'' cursor
		motion

	SYNOPSIS
		cc [flags] files tc.o -ltermlib [libraries]

	DESCRIPTION
		These routines give the programmer the high level curses(3)
		interface to the termcap(3) functions without the overhead
		of the curses(3) screen optimization capabilities.  Tiny
		curses is useful for simple screen formatting and is more
		efficient for displays that do not require significant
		redrawing.

		To use the routines, the function initscr() should be called
		before any others.  The routine endwin() should be called
		before exiting.

		The names of the functions are identical to those of
		curses(3) so that it is easy to move from Tiny curses to
		real curses(3).  There are many functions provided by
		curses(3) that are not provided here (e.g., windows), so the
		opposite translation is more difficult.

	AUTHOR
		Gary Perlman

	SEE ALSO
		curses(3), termcap(3), termcap(5)

	FILES
		#include "curses.h"definitions of variables and compatibility functions
		/etc/termcap   terminal capability database

	VARIABLES
		int LINES;/* number of lines in display */
		int COLS; /* number of columns in display */

	FUNCTIONS
		Basic
			endwin () reset tty to old parameters
			initscr ()initialize screen
			move (y, x)move to line=y column=x (zero origin)
			refresh ()flush output to screen (fflush(stdout))

		Clear Regions
			clear ()  clear screen
			clrtobot ()clear to bottom of screen
			clrtoeol ()clear to end of line

		Terminal Functions
			crmode () cbreak mode
			echo ()   echo characters
			nocrmode ()out of cbreak mode
			noecho () don't echo characters
			noraw ()  no raw mode
			raw ()    raw mode
			resetty ()reset tty to stored state
			savetty ()save tty state

		Highlighting
			beep ()   visible or at least audible bell
			standend ()don't highlight text
			standout ()highlight text
			underend ()end underscore mode
			underscore ()underscore characters

		Editing Functions
			delch ()  delete the character under the cursor
			deleteln ()delete the current line
			insch (c) insert character
			insertln ()insert line

	DIAGNOSTICS
		To be compatible with curses(3), there are no diagnostics.

	NOTES
		The refresh() function is actually a call to fflush(stdout)
		to flush the output buffer.  Thus, the tiny curses refresh()
		may be used to guarantee that some text is on the screen,
		but it might go out sooner.

		Tiny curses assumes you want to catch interrupts, so
		initscr() sets things up so that an interrupt will reset the
		tty, move to the bottom of the screen, and exit.
